# 0101 - January 1st

### [1]

This year, I have decided to build a habit of writing online. Generally, I explore a lot of fascinating topics related to tech, science, and philosophy, but year after year, it’s easy to forget all that I’ve discovered and mostly remember them as fleeting flashes from time to time.

The most interesting highlight of the previous year has been how much LLM-related tools have become part of my workflow. From generating code to creating images, it seems like we are never going back to the old ways of doing things.

In my opinion, the dependency on such tools can become mind-rotting if the quality of work does not improve. If your code or writing remains at the same level of quality with the help of LLMs, it just means you’re avoiding the effort of genuine improvement. This must be avoided.

---

### [2]

What defines the quality of an idea? Is it how many people know about it? What is the novelty of an idea? Mathematics could probably provide a KL-divergence-based answer, but intuitively, many ideas are interesting and well-known, while plenty of dumb ideas are obscure. So, this is definitely not a measure of an idea’s quality. Then, what is?

Another question is whether the quality of thoughts relates to the quality of ideas. It seems so, because how can one generate good ideas if their thoughts don’t exist on the same manifold? By manifold, I loosely mean the plane on which thoughts occur. Some people have better thoughts than others, likely because they spend time thinking, reading, and questioning.

Here’s a thought experiment: If I were a thought living among other thoughts in latent space, how would I perceive the world? For instance, “Apple is red” is less interesting compared to something like “Apple is made up of atoms.” This suggests that the quality of thoughts is strongly tied to one’s taste. Someone might find the thought “Apple is red” more interesting than “Apple is made of atoms,” which shows that “interesting” is as much a function of the observer as it is of the observed.

Is a groundbreaking idea inherently of higher quality than one that is not groundbreaking? Does the quality of an idea depend on its popularity? Are ideas that operate meta-discursively about other ideas more interesting?

I am digressing into other thoughts. Most importantly, can my mind be visualized as a bucket of thoughts where I loop endlessly? This would make for such a fascinating visual experiment.

---

### [3]

If you had free time to do whatever you wanted, what would you do? I believe many people ask this question, but they don’t know themselves well enough to utilize the free time they already have. It seems like a fallacy. You already have free time, yet you’re not utilizing it. The problem is not a scarcity of time but a scarcity of clarity and agency—knowing what you want to do and having the will to do it. Both are generally lacking in most people.

--- 
