# 0102 - January 2nd

[1] 

How much of advices/improvements can one integrate in their life. From thousands of years people are advicing on how to live life and lot of those books (religious, self-help, stoic etc.) are still being read as a source of inspiration on how to live life, if not as a gospel

[2]

The best fiction when someone will look back from tomorrow is between us, but we don't know about it. This is true for many other things not only fiction. Ideas, works etc. which get popularity much later in timeline are limited to a niche group in their own timeline.

This reminds me of a joke which regularly reappears on internet - that what if i didn't sold my bitcoins. People who help bitcoin by intention should be studied given how much of an asset it was at that time. 

[3]

Most of us only know to work and produce output with external reward. We don't accept our dependence on it but it is precisely the reason why most people product almost zero significant work in their life. It is because doing something creative for yourself has to be done firstly for it's own reward as it's value at first is zero in front of others.

It is also easy to fall in trap of weak rewards. Rewards which allow you to just do enough to survive. A paycheck for one is a weak reward. It just lets you have enough to meet your needs and keeps you maximally occupied in the job cycle. This can take away crucial years of your life. The society is designed in this way so that productivity at mass scale can be maintained.

A recent epiphany left me silent. Words are connected to intentions, hence they have so much power. an hour of silence vs an hour of asking yourself "why" repeatedly on ideas you are curious about have a drastic divergence in how changed you feel afterwards.

[4]

What will the society look like in future. Are there books today which look into future correctly? Are there any predicted technologies which have yet to appear. Was bitcoin predicted? Were large language models predicted by any fictional book? More likely the novelists/writers talk more about stories that emerge out of status quo and interactions than actually how things work. Science deals with how things work, whereas Fiction deals with purely imaginitive space. Science is rigorous and asks questions. Fiction freely assumes. This also shows sides of human psyche. We can reason things and we can keep assumptions and move forward freely in domain of fiction.

LLMs are stochastic parrots. May be at some level we humans are too. But the process of writing has lot of pauses where I go into imagination and refine my taste. It's not just regurgiating what i know but also learning what i know and what i need to know. Writing for humans is not just dumping of what we know but exploration of what we know and most of the time we end up improving our understanding. I think this kind of cycle of refinement gives writing it's unique quality which people tend to notice and feel attracted to.

[5]

How to improve fast in something? What are ways to grok something which you are studying for the first time. Generally the advice is put long hours, spend time with material etc. But I think it's not that. Many people I know work extremely long hours but their understanding about the topic is weak. At max the success the attain is due to them following a consistent path and making safe decisions in life rather than being actually good at what they do. It is sad tbh, because I find that they are also not happy about it. They wished to be better in what they do and not just follow the above average path. What is solution to this? The best answer I have today is that you "build" to understand. Building things from scratch needs you to be really know stuff. There are other things like if you have great memory you can just regurgiate things like code, writing etc. More often than not it will have negative impact as you will have wrong notion of learning. Learning is not just memorising. Regurgiating things don't make you understand them at a deeper level. Then what does?

[6]

*non-linear reading*

I am always reading something—whether it’s a book, a message, a tweet, a post, or a blog. This is true for most people. It might not always be a book, but it’s always text. We are constantly exposed to words, often scrolling through lines silently in our cozy bedrooms, trying to make sense of them or simply passing the time.

What impact does all this reading have on us? Does it make us more linear thinkers? By "linear thinking," I mean that we tend to expect things to follow a simple, straightforward progression. We want things to be neat and ordered, avoiding spirals or circular patterns of progression.

Imagine, for example, if we spent as much time engaging with non-linear graphs or interactive data visualizations as we do with text. If we explored these patterns by clicking through them or interacting with them in some way, we would become accustomed to understanding non-linear progressions. We would no longer expect a straight line from one point to the next, and this shift could fundamentally alter the way we process and engage with information.

This could also explain why so many people simply regurgitate text without truly understanding it. The engagement with reading often becomes passive, and while we take in information, we might not always integrate it on a deeper level.

[7]

*what is reasoning*

When people mention reasoning in conversation it appears that what they mean is ability to reach correct and logical conclusion but they don't care about how you reach them. So statistically if all you see is a system which gives you right answer to questions you have prompted it for, and if the questions themselves appear like they need reason to answer - all you are gonna infer is that the system has reasoning capabilities. This is a very wrong phenomena happening with today's LLMs given people just keep regularly assuming reasoning capability without really caring about the quality of the test.

The way to really test reasoning capability in LLMs would be to have a test set which is fresh everytime so there is no chance of data contamination and the test set doesn't limit itself to any particular level of difficulty so that LLM don't fall into trap of memorising upto a certain dimension of reasoning.

[8]

*What exactly makes things hard to learn*

Some thing come naturally to some people and not so for others. More or less, everyone is good at learning something which they are learning for fun. The feeling of fun or 'fun' state of mind, is quite similar to how people love to play games and enjoy them for hours and hours. It allows you to work towards a reward in a constrained environment. So, if something is hard for you to learn -> probably you have not made it fun to learn for yourself. 

[9]

*Your action distribution is your reality*

We terribly lack sense of time management by nature. We spend time on things which we don't want to spend time on but we keep deluding ourselves that it is not what is happening. People who want to learn X and fail to do so actually spend doing Y thing most of the time and probably just intermittently look at X. I don't know what is this phenomena's official term but just fixing where you are putting your time and measuring it correctly seems to have a big alpha on improving outcomes.

[10]

*Conversations are the best inferface for learning*

I was working through one course of AI safety today and realised that how boring generally one sided learning process is, and how fun it is to learn with someone. More often than not having fun while learning makes you learn for longer period of time building upon the cycle of small rewards. The new vision LLMs might solve it generically for everything within an year at low cost where you just share your screen and it works with you - but without full control of the environment it will be not a smooth experience. Makes me think that once AI gets full agency of both read and write in real world, we will be players and it will be the system.
