# 0103 - January 3rd

[1]

*Can AI safety really be done without loopholes*

Is there any real world system which don't have loopholes? whether it's personal security, or systems security or industrial security - we were never able to build systems which can effectively be fullproof from holes. So what makes us believe that fragmented systems can be like kept safe and without loop holes?

[2]

*Thinking before writing as a reconcillation process*

When writing you are forced to think. This is a common experience for everyone who tries to write something. You stare at the cursor and remain paused, breathing in and out. I believe what we call thinking is actually a reconcillation process. From the myriad madness of our thoughts which may appear to be great while thinking we need to bring out a structure (if we are seriously writing). Forcing structure on something needs reconcillation or clarity on what is what and what relates to what. This process takes intention and deep down it's a culmination of asking why and how on every step (which our internal thinking model does automatically). If we were to design a game where rather than laws of physics, the laws of reasoning were running the world - it would be an excellent playground for AI to build that model.

[3]

*Are we more similar to the people of past or to people from future*

This is a interesting question in both ways - since past was a time of less progress, one can assume that there are major shifts in our lifestyles due to that. But at the same time, the future will have technological advancements which will far surpass what changes have happened in the past. So there doesn't seem like a clear winner and depends on what exactly we are discussing in the comparision. Nonetheless, it has stumped my thoughts.

[4]

*Anatomical structures of digital systems*

If we strip away the attributes of digital objects such as their color, name, etc., we are left with their underlying structure—the way elements are arranged relative to one another. Few of the common structures we encounter regularly:
- arrangements that resemble tree-like structures often symbolize choices and diverse perspectives. e.g. discussion section of a post, 
- Grids, on the other hand, tend to represent uniformity, lack of individual identity, and orderliness. e.g. numpy matrices, tasks in a todo list
- Spherical or circular arrangements are typically associated with a singular, repetition, equality, unified origin or creator. e.g. ring topology

[5]

*Signs of true skill amongst scientific endeavours*

With gaming systems becoming easier with help of generative AI, bot detection getting harder and harder etc. what would be some ways to identify true skills. The portfolio of projects no longer serve it's purpose. Anyone can spin up above average demo using cloud LLMs. The side-project vector don't work anymore or is almost as equivalently useless as leetcode in hiring the programmers. I think best way to hire going forward is basically ask someone to solve a toy problem around what you are working on live in front of you. That's the only useful vector I can think.

[6]

*Writing as Map Drawing*

It's as if you are in a maze. You were anxious inside because you don't know the path. You know something about the maze but not enough to be calm. Your working memory only keeps jumping from one path to next, not giving any feeling of solution. Writing to me is like metaphorically equal to sitting down at a place in maze and drawing your idea of the maze on paper. It gives you structure. It gives you the much needed abstract model which you can easily manipulate. What you can't write, you most likely don't understand.

[7]

*Curiosity and Committment*

A genuine curiosity has magnetic pull. The moment you think about it, you start to enter a different mental state where you don't mind the clock. You are hooked on it. The experience is very similar to love. Hours can pass and it feels like minutes. It's hard to define curiosity. It's a mystertry personal to you and whose answer serves no one but you. A lot of race nowadays is about reaching somewhere, or being something/someone; more of a game of status / achievement. Whereas, if you are just running behind your curiosity - you enter a permanent state of satisfaction from just being on that journey.

[8]

*Goal of writing*

What is the goal of writing? One is to build personal clarity. But what about writing online. When we share our words with others what is our expectation. There are many benefits we seek from it, or rather rewards is a better term - value, recognition, social acceptance, reverence, replies, discussion etc. Showing your thoughts to others is a way of engaging with others and becoming part of a group. The back and forth gives us signals and we get to know about our position in the world. World in this case though is just a social network where your writing is being seen. 

On the other side of this, what does the network value? Why do we love some essays and we don't love many others. is it relevance to contemprory issues, or is it something that relates personally to many. A bit of both may be. A hypotesis of mine is that the network which remains stable for long has a fair reward system and the value of new content is fairly valued. There can be instances of forgery but generally the network which is able to send good content to majority of users - is also a good judge of quality of new material and testing it fast. Going by that assumption, the value imparted on writing by the network is reflection of how much worthy the piece is for those who are reading it. It needs to relate to them, and beyond just relating - it needs to give them a mental shift. Their perspective shift is what moves them to love it and take it home with them. The goal of writing for others is to change who they are in a way that they can feel it in their core.

[9]

*Effort and Quality*

In endeavours where quality can only be attained through efforts, one has a permanent heaven. For if one has guts to keep patience and derive high quality work from it - they can quickly gain recognition. This is true for most work where the "work" itself is the outcome and not something else. Art, Poems, Stories, Novels, Essays etc. all reflect some effort.

Art allows us to respect such talents for it does not care for credentials and only the work itself. It does not need to refer to prior work or build upon foundations set by others; but can be pulled out from thin air.

[10]

*Reasoning is not verbal*

Reasoning is a system that doesn't need to be verbal or pictorial. It can live in latent space without any formal definition of rules getting invoked everytime one does reasoning. The rules are just the starting parameters and reasoning is sort of a simulation of abstract concepts / a structure of structures. Just like physics has physical laws - the reasoning sim has reasoning laws (logical principles) and the objects follow that. 


[11]

*Agents with taste*

The future will soon be there (~10 years) where we are competing regularly with AI bots for jobs. Not everyone can run a business. Not everyone has shitload of money. A robot is significantly cheaper to maintain than a average human and you can 'own' it. It won't file lawsuits back at you. Consiousness if at all emerges can be removed too. So what can a average intelligence human can do in such world? I believe our role in society would be to provide true random values to robitic systems. Our own fingerprint. We sell our taste our thoughts which the machines will use as seeds in their global intelligence systems.

[12]

*Let your taste take over*

Often people have unique opinion/taste about how things should be. For social consensus most of us hide it. We don't say what we truly think about things and avoid critising in order to avoid getting critisized back. This has caused most of us to remain stifled within our false selves. We keep trying to fit in by doing 'average' choices and 'average' things. Instead, we should just choose one niche and obsess about it and let our taste about that niche totally known to the world. 
