0106 - January 6th

[3]

*Lack of certainty about the AI risk*

We know there is some risk involved, but we don't know whether we can mitigate it. A lot of arguments revolve around gating access of AI to real threat vectors. But just ability to use internet and run code has allowed people historically to hack systems and get financial advantage or do reputation damage. It is also most likely that before a well aligned AI we will have a super intelligent unaligned AI which would be within grasp of some humans while mostly in demo state to other humans with rate-limits. The AI's we run locally can never be ahead of what corporate large models can do and it will always be a catching game. Exciting future ahead with huge risk over our heads along with possibility of having access to superintelligent systems. It's hard to pick sides on this. You can't stop it, and slowing it down also won't work. The best bet is someone with good intentions will build ASI first to protect rest of us from the threat of a unaligned ASI.

[2]

*machine learning is too much fun to learn why*

Machine learning is more like learning biology. You have a complex system which is working but you cant really explore it deeply due to cost of experimentation. So you learn things by seeing behaviour and building hypothesis. Programming in general is opposite to it. You can check anything about the system. Machine learning is like this weird blend of working with something you write, and after a while you stop understanding it. It's funny almost. It's like you were writing a novel and after a while characters started ot have their own lives and no longer you can understand their intentions.

[1]

*the habit pulls you back*

This is my experience with writing habit. Whenever I follow it for a few days, it seems like the habit pulls me back. The feeling of missing a day is a negative reward to brain. But it doesn't happen with all habits I try. Why do some habits have this pulling feature and others don't? For example going to a gym. It doesn't pull you back. I guess it mostly depends on how much quickly you can get started on something. Writing is pretty simple activity and it takes almost zero second from thinking about the habit to doing it.
