# 0109 - 9th January

[2]

*the exponential curve of social media*

While many see social media as a curse, a waste of time, a cause of rising ADHD issues in children etc. I see it as the ultimate human accelerator. Isn't it ideal to be able to broadcast your thoughts and let others comment on them. If things are anonymous, you virtually get all the benefits with zero downside; unless you take it personal. Another thing is it's a great test of your consistency and value you have to offer to the world. Good content, good ideas etc. do rise in social media if put forward in atleast a manner which can be consumed. Ofcourse you can't just dump your research paper and expect suddenly attention from everyone but a simple line with graphic explaninig your work - is more often than not enough to grab attention of others. 

I often see users trying hard to gain followers early on. It doesn't make much sense tbh. Unless you have a unique offering / thought-stream which can consistently give signal to the algorithm about the users who would love it -> it won't ever find the right audience for you. The right audience is the group which exactly needs the content you are streaming. So, its better to work on your niche first than actually attract audience. Hence, initially one should post less and work more.

[1]

*humans and unclear objectives*

We love to have a superposition of goals which we don't know about clearly. We do X,Y,Z together but then we feel why we are not progressing on X 100%. And don't forget the W which is not even known to us and we never question it, unaware we do it all our lives.
