# 0110 - 10th January

[3]

*Meritocracy always thrives*

It can be mathematically proved imo that with technological advancement, those parts of civilisations which are more meritorious will thrive more than the others. New technology gives opportunity to equalise previous misdistributions, and favor those who are more aligned to the larger benefit of humanity.

[2]

*Ability to make choice and having concept of self*

As long as a system has a concept of self which it identifies with i.e. it can refer to what is 'self' and what is not 'self'; and it can make choices which don't need to be bound by any single parameter strictly -> that being is conscious in my understanding.

[1]

*Intelligence without emotions and consciousness*

The current GPT revolution has shown that intelligence can exist without the shackles of emotions or the need for an entity to be consiousness. In that respect what emotions/consiousness provide to biological organisms is ability to have goals. The goals help is direct ourselves for getting rewards - and in a open ended world like the one we live in -> it helps in doing things which are meaningful/align to survival and continuance of our species. The fun thing about AI/AGI/ASI will be it will chase the goals which we will want it to chase. Well, it is gonna be quite a moment when the first negative goal will be given and will cause widespread panic. We need to build security gates before that happens, but generally the cost of doing it before and doing it afterwards are different and most likely it will happen afterwards because a loss of human life isn't that highly valued by leaders of this world - and may be that is the only way things can function too.
