# 0111.md - 11th January

[3]

*How hard is to go down a random rabit hole and write about it?*

what is a rabbit hole? you read an article which introduced let's say concept of perplexity. You start with what is perplexity, had a few discussion with chatbots, read the wikipedia page etc. Most people will end their search there and go about their day. But here, the true rabbit hole diver would go to references in wikipedia and explore every single one of them. The amount of information would be overwhelming so they would start keeping track of links, and snippets. They would start having questions and start to slowly track them too. Once they have explored every reference from the encyclopedia; they won't be satisfied. They would look for online posts/comments about it. They would search for the oldest reference of the term, who coined it, how they coined it etc. to understand the historical trajectory of the topic; until they can reach the frontier knowledge and point out who and where is doing research on the topic with what open questions. This is reality of going down a rabbit hole. Beyond this if the person wish to share their knowledge iwth the world, they would organise all the snippets, links, references, insights etc. in a succint essay, allowing the reason to be fascinated with the subject and have the fruits of this research.

[2]

*building tools for others is timeless altruism*

Lately I have been thinking about meaning of life and whether I have contributed much to others. The thought is not necessary but for all intent and purpose, it comes out from how you see yourself. Many can go about their whole life without worrying about their contribution to others, and many won't even live a single day. I am somewhere in between or i should say in the lazier part of the curve that I have only thought about it after i am relatively free with my time. Anyways, I had few thoughts on the topic.

In my opinion, the ideal contribution one can do is to do a big breakthrough which changes the direction of humanity. This is arguably the thing i would have done if I was ok with the risks it entails. I don't feel at this point of my life that i am that smart as well to do big bets on research and neither my patience allows for just working on one thing for years without seeing results. Research also, is very very packed with smart folks; and i have found the barrier of IQ also seems to be there.

So, then what is available for the rest of us? People who are not super high IQ individuals obsessed with research in the most addictive way? One way is to build tool to enable others. Tools help others in what they are trying to achieve. Arguably, tools are as much as timeless as research papers. Tools also depend a lot on taste ; you can build a unusable tool just because you didn't care about how others can use it. Lot of products are tools only but at an individual level and when it comes to open source, building tools can give a big impact to where the ecosystem is headed too.

[1]

*What makes us unable to write longer?*

I have a hypothesis that writing without structural consistency is much easier for anyone. You just let your thoughts go down the paper/editor. Writing of such kind can be done for pages and pages without getting tired. It's as if you are just connecting a funnel from inside of you to the fingers or the tip of the pen. Why does it work like that? what processes makes such writing possible? Writing without thinking - how does it work and how does it work at such a rapid pace. To me it appears as if the process is instinctual and mostly works on token completion like LLMs. I am not putting any deleberate thought but i know what text will go next based on my latent knowledge. I am just converting/linearising what i know about the topic and how i believe the topic is - which can include writing about writing.

Whereas there is another kind of writing. Let's do that now. Think about some ways that Riemann hypothesis can be proved? If you are not directly working on the subject, you will not have any thoughts on this. I challenge you to complete this line with a way to solve Reinmann hypothesis which should be unexplored. I want you to force yourself into really asking your brain and leaving "gap" or "hole" to be filled by your mind. This intention of leaving a hole/gap in the model and letting that tension remain allows for new knowledge to be discovered. It's sort of discovery because it's not already within you. You are relating unrelated concepts and taking bets inside the mind although unconsiously. This is a different process. Hence writing of this nature which is based on discovery of such answers is hard. Anyone can write what they already know from memory or just belief - but it takes lot of tension-building / effort to write something precisely to discover an idea further.
