# 0120

[2]

*coming up with conclusions fast*

Seems like the worst way to fuck up your world model is to regularly trade-off accuracy for speed while making conclusions. I think the chain of thought which we are teaching in AI, should be taught to humans first. So much value in ability to think in a productive manner without coming to hasty answers, or just giving up altogether.


[1]

*why loops*

Where does asking why lead us to? like infinitely? It depends on the direction but also if one is not going in a loop. We most likely are a part of a very large loop which we can't see where it's looping back. It would be funny if it turned out that the universe loops again and again through the same point and only entity able to remember at that scale is universe itself.

Anyways, any argument can be generalised to a point of uselessness. The real value of a argument is between two points where it is giving a real worthy insight. Saying life is meaningless is useless, so is saying life is meaningful. Why is life meaningful or meaninguless when explored within a certain context helps in building up some knowledge which can be useful. The grand arguments are not adding any value except to some social media influencers dumb userbase.

Let's take an example of something simple like "why are people talking". This looks such a useless statement without the context. "why are people talking about AI", is a little more interesting. Adding further context, "why are people talking about the AI's impact on job losses"; now this has become something which can have few jumps here and there and end up in a good system of facts based predictions. What I really wanna convey here is not how to make a sentence interesting, but more about what are the right sentences to form in case one's goal is to build a meaningful writing.
